---
title: Examples
---

# Examples of hyperlinked twin websites

All the current examples of hyperlinked twins were generated by Stratego code added to Spoofax meta-language projects.

The hyperlinks between name definitions and references were generated from the name binding analysis 
used in the Spoofax language workbench.

Similarly, the syntax highlighting on the web pages uses CSS rules generated from the editor services
specification used by Spoofax editor windows.

Currently, the examples of hyperlinked twins include specifications only in the Spoofax meta-languages
SDF3 and NaBL.

!!! note

    The examples of hyperlinked twins will soon be expanded to include also specifications of name binding in Statix,[^NaBL2]
    and specification of transformations in Stratego.

[^NaBL2]: NaBL2 is omitted because Spoofax does not support name-based navigation in NaBL2 specifications.

## Spoofax meta-language projects

The descriptions of the meta-languages below are excerpts from the Spoofax documentation websites.

### SDF3

[org.metaborg.meta.lang.template/syntax/TemplateLang.sdf3](https://pdmosses.github.io/sdf/org.metaborg.meta.lang.template/syntax/TemplateLang.sdf3/)

> SDF3 is the third version of the Syntax Definition Formalism.
> It is recommended for use in Spoofax for simultaneously defining the concrete and abstract syntax of languages.
> Through the use of so-called templates, SDF3 can also be used to define a pretty-printer.

> The syntax of the SDF3 meta-language is specified in SDF3 itself.
> This example demonstrates generation of a hyperlinked twin from a bootstrapped meta-language specification.

### NaBL

[org.metaborg.meta.lang.nabl/syntax/NameBindingLanguage.sdf3](https://pdmosses.github.io/nabl/org.metaborg.meta.lang.nabl/syntax/NameBindingLanguage.sdf3/)

[org.metaborg.meta.lang.nabl/trans/analysis/names.nab](https://pdmosses.github.io/nabl/org.metaborg.meta.lang.nabl/trans/analysis/names.nab/)

> NaBL stands for Name Binding Language and the acronym is pronounced ‘enable’. Name binding is specified in NaBL in terms of:
> 
> - namespaces
> - binding instances (name declarations)
> - bound instances (name references)
> - scopes
> - imports

### NaBL2

[org.metaborg.meta.nabl2.lang/syntax/NaBL2Lang.sdf3](https://pdmosses.github.io/nabl/org.metaborg.meta.nabl2.lang/syntax/NaBL2Lang.sdf3/)

> The NaBL2 ‘Name Binding Language’ supports the specification of name binding and type checking rules of a language.
> NaBL2 uses a constraint-based approach, and uses scope graphs for name resolution.

### Statix

[statix.lang/syntax/StatixLang.sdf3](https://pdmosses.github.io/nabl/statix.lang/syntax/StatixLang.sdf3/)

> Statix specifications are organised in modules. In Statix, programs, types and all other data are represented using terms.
> Type-checking a program is performed by solving a set of constraints over terms.
> In addition to these built-in constraints, specification writers can define their own constraints.

> Type-checking is closely related to, and strongly intertwined with, name resolution.
> For that reason, Statix has built-in support for modelling name binding patterns in the form of scope graphs.
> During type-checking, names can be resolved using queries.

## A MetaBorgCube language project

### Java Front

[java-front/lang.java/syntax/metaborg-java.sdf3](https://pdmosses.github.io/java-front/lang.java/syntax/metaborg-java.sdf3/)

> A declarative specification of Java 8's syntax in Spoofax.
